CIP 0057 - Add Quantstamp as a Weight 1 Super Validator (#46)
global-synchronizer-foundation/cips: cip-0057/cip-0057.md

* Quantstamp is a global leader in blockchain audits are uniquely qualified to provide this service in a manner that is respected throughout the industry
* Quantstamp provides audits and additional services to many high-caliber clients and their presence on Canton Network will stand to increase the network footprint
* Quantstamp commits to complete an audit to determine whether the Daml smart contracts governing the tokenomics of Canton Coin accurately represent the logic and functions articulated in the Canton Coin Whitepaper **([Canton Coin: A Canton-Network-native payment application, July 2024](https://www.digitalasset.com/hubfs/Canton%20Network%20Files/Documents%20(whitepapers%2c%20etc...)/Canton%20Coin_%20A%20Canton-Network-native%20payment%20application.pdf?__hstc=169870847.27df3a707cb3b89a07f374d4891d8642.1710256798828.1741110253846.1741612640674.91&__hssc=169870847.2.1741612640674&__hsfp=3850742519&_gl=1*5z4x0k*_gcl_au*MTQ5NzQwNTI2My4xNzM2ODcwMDU0*_ga*Mzg3OTI0NjkxLjE3MTAyNTY3OTg.*_ga_GVK9ZHZSMR*MTc0MTYxMjYzOS43Ny4xLjE3NDE2MTI2NDIuNTcuMC4w))**
* Quantstamp agrees to complete the audit and provide their analysis no later than 3 months after the approval of this CIP

> * Quantstamp agrees to a 3 year commitment to performing this audit 1x per year, OR for every major upgrade (for example upgrade from 2.x to 3.x.) 
>     * More specifically
>         * Quantstamp will do three more audits after the first audit for a total of four audits.
>         * Each time there is a major protocol change, they audit after the protocol change on an agreed upon and reasonable timeline.
>         * If for some reason there is not a major protocol change for 12 months, they re-audit Canton Coin once within that 12 month period

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Quantstamp agrees to a 3 year commitment to performing [this audit](/cip-0057/Canton-Coin-Splice-Amulet-Audit-Scope-and-Breakdown-For-Canton-Network.pdf) 1x per year, OR for every major upgrade to these Daml models and the Scala automation code they interact with.
    * More specifically
        * Quantstamp will do three more audits after the first audit for a total of four audits.
        * Each time there is a major change to these Daml models, they audit after the Daml model upgrade goes live on MainNet, on an agreed upon and reasonable timeline.
        * If for some reason there is not a major Daml model change for 12 months, they re-audit the Daml models and interacting Scala code at least once within that 12 month period
```

## CIP 0057

<pre>
  CIP: CIP 0057
  Title:  Add Quantstamp as a Weight 1 Super Validator
  Author: 
    Eric W Saraniecki 
  Status: Draft 
  Type: Governance 
  Created: 2025-03-07
  Approved: TBD
  License: CC0-1.0
</pre>

## Abstract

* Add Quantstamp as a Tier 3 (Weight 1) Super Validator rights owner
* Quantstamp commits to complete an audit to determine whether the Daml smart contracts governing the tokenomics of Canton Coin accurately represent the logic and functions articulated in the Canton Coin Whitepaper **([Canton Coin: A Canton-Network-native payment application, July 2024](https://www.digitalasset.com/hubfs/Canton%20Network%20Files/Documents%20(whitepapers%2c%20etc...)/Canton%20Coin_%20A%20Canton-Network-native%20payment%20application.pdf?__hstc=169870847.27df3a707cb3b89a07f374d4891d8642.1710256798828.1741110253846.1741612640674.91&__hssc=169870847.2.1741612640674&__hsfp=3850742519&_gl=1*5z4x0k*_gcl_au*MTQ5NzQwNTI2My4xNzM2ODcwMDU0*_ga*Mzg3OTI0NjkxLjE3MTAyNTY3OTg.*_ga_GVK9ZHZSMR*MTc0MTYxMjYzOS43Ny4xLjE3NDE2MTI2NDIuNTcuMC4w))**
* Quantstamp agrees to complete the audit and provide their analysis no later than 3 months after the approval of this CIP

> * Quantstamp agrees to a 3 year commitment to performing this audit 1x per year, OR for every major upgrade to these Daml models 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Quantstamp agrees to a 3 year commitment to performing this audit 1x per year, OR for every major upgrade to these Daml models and the Scala automation code they interact with.
```

> * Quantstamp agrees to a 3 year commitment to performing this audit 1x per year, OR for every major upgrade (for example upgrade from 2.x to 3.x.) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Quantstamp agrees to a 3 year commitment to performing this audit 1x per year, OR for every Daml model upgrade impacting Canton Coin.
```

> * Quantstamp agrees to a 3 year commitment to performing this audit 1x per year, OR for every major upgrade (for example upgrade from 2.x to 3.x.) 
>     * More specifically
>         * Quantstamp will do three more audits after the first audit for a total of four audits.
>         * Each time there is a major protocol change, they audit after the protocol change on an agreed upon and reasonable timeline.
>         * If for some reason there is not a major protocol change for 12 months, they re-audit Canton Coin once within that 12 month period

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Quantstamp agrees to a 3 year commitment to performing this audit 1x per year, OR for every major upgrade to these Daml models 
    * More specifically
        * Quantstamp will do three more audits after the first audit for a total of four audits.
        * Each time there is a major change to these Daml models, they audit after the Daml model upgrade goes live on MainNet, on an agreed upon and reasonable timeline.
        * If for some reason there is not a major Daml model change for 12 months, they re-audit the Daml models at leasat once within that 12 month period
```

>         * If for some reason there is not a major Daml model change for 12 months, they re-audit the Daml models at least once within that 12 month period

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * If for some reason there is not a major Daml model change for 12 months, they re-audit the Daml models and interacting Scala code at least once within that 12 month period
```

>     * More specifically
>         * Quantstamp will do three more audits after the first audit for a total of four audits.
>         * Each time there is a major change to these Daml models, they audit after the Daml model upgrade goes live on MainNet, on an agreed upon and reasonable timeline.
>         * If for some reason there is not a major Daml model change for 12 months, they re-audit the Daml models and interacting Scala code at least once within that 12 month period

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
